## 1.4 Drawing on the Web

#### Morning Exercise

1.  Define a function max() that takes two numbers as arguments and returns the largest of them. Use the if-then-else construct available in Javascript.
2.  Write a function that takes a character (i.e. a string of length 1) and returns true if it is a vowel, false otherwise.
3.  Define a function sum() and a function multiply() that sums and multiplies (respectively) all the numbers in an array of numbers. For example, sum([1,2,3,4]) should return 10, and multiply([1,2,3,4]) should return 24.
NEW MESSAGES

#### Re-Introduction to HTML & CSS

###### Objectives

* Re-introduce HTML and CSS
* Understand what the DOM is
* Define the role of CSS and how selectors work
* Create a web page and style it

A link to the slide deck is available here: https://presentations.generalassemb.ly/68229ab5327ec68f5a2d#/

#### Selectors and Canvas

###### Objectives

* Understand how to create a Canvas element
* Create and use Javascript selectors
* Use the coordinate system (and Chrome DevTools)
* Draw on the web using Canvas
* Create a random number generator

#### Javascript Scope

###### Objectives

By the end of this, students should be able to:

- Draw a diagram representing variable scope.
- Create a list of operations that explain runtime behavior.
- Create a program that hoists variables.

##### Lab: Creating a Boilerplate

* Soon

#### Homework

* Work on and complete the WDI Fundamentals Pre-work
* Review the content that we have covered this week
* Create an issue on our Github repository for any question(s) you may have regarding the content we covered this week
